Introduction

- Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive
throughout the evaluation process. The well-being of the community
depends on it.

- Identify with the person (or the group) evaluated the eventual
dysfunctions of the work. Take the time to discuss
and debate the problems you have identified.

- You must consider that there might be some difference in how your
peers might have understood the project's instructions and the
scope of its functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade
him/her as honestly as possible. The pedagogy is valid only and
only if peer-evaluation is conducted seriously.
Guidelines

- Only grade the work that is in the student or group's
GiT repository.

- Double-check that the GiT repository belongs to the student
or the group. Ensure that the work is for the relevant project
and also check that "git clone" is used in an empty folder.

- Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you
and make you evaluate something other than the content of the
official repository.

- To avoid any surprises, carefully check that both the evaluating
and the evaluated students have reviewed the possible scripts used
to facilitate the grading.

- If the evaluating student has not completed that particular
project yet, it is mandatory for this student to read the
entire subject prior to starting the defence.

- Use the flags available on this scale to signal an empty repository,
non-functioning program, a norm error, cheating etc. In these cases,
the grading is over and the final grade is 0 (or -42 in case of
cheating). However, with the exception of cheating, you are
encouraged to continue to discuss your work (even if you have not
finished it) in order to identify any issues that may have caused
this failure and avoid repeating the same mistake in the future.

- Remember that for the duration of the defence, no segfault,
no other unexpected, premature, uncontrolled or unexpected
termination of the program, else the final grade is 0. Use the
appropriate flag.
You should never have to edit any file except the configuration file if it exists.
If you want to edit a file, take the time to explicit the reasons with the
evaluated student and make sure both of you are okay with this.

- You must also verify the absence of memory leaks. Any memory allocated on the heap must
be properly freed before the end of execution.
You are allowed to use any of the different tools available on the computer, such as
leaks, valgrind, or e_fence. In case of memory leaks, tick the appropriate flag.
Attachments
subject.pdf
mazegenerator-00001.zip
Preliminaries

Basics

    Only grade the work that is in the student's or group's
    Git repository.

    All the files requested in the subject must be present
    in the repository.

Mandatory Part

Project Management

Check the dedicated subdirectory for the project management

    It must include relevant elements, like the examples provided in the subject.
    Ask the team to pitch a one-minute tour of the documents.

You should have a clear view of how the project was managed and organized.
If it is not the case, the evaluation stops here.

README.md File

Check if the README.md file is present at the root of the project
and includes all the required sections as described in the subject.

Along with the usual 4 required elements, Pac-Man asks for 6 extra sections.
Other relevant sections / elements are allowed in this file.

Makefile

Check if the Makefile is present at the root of the project
and includes the rules required in the subject.

If any of the required rules is missing, the grade is 0.

Code Quality

Quality checks pass on the Python sources:
run make lint

    flake8: No errors or warnings
    mypy: No errors, no warnings

Usage (CLI)

Run make install to create the appropriate runtime environment.
If needed, enter into a virtualenv.

    Check that the program usage matches the subject (exactly one argument: a JSON config file).
    Wrong/missing arguments must be handled with clear messages (no Python traceback).
    Also check in the Makefile that the run rule follows the expected usage.

Configuration File

Check that the configuration is present and follows the requirements
described in the subject:

    format, comments handling, defaults/clamping, unknown keys, etc.

Error Handling

For the upcoming questions, every time the program is running:

    Check that errors are handled cleanly with clear messages
    Check that no Python traceback is ever displayed to the user.

If not, hit the 'Crash' flag.

Build and Run

Follow the instructions provided in the README.md file.

    Check that running make run is also a valid way to launch the program.

Main Menu

The application starts at the main menu and displays the elements
required in the subject.

    A way to start a new game
    An Highscore view
    Instructions with the game rules and controls
    A way to quit the game

Level Structure

Time to start the game!

    Ensure that the first level is always the same (fixed seed).
    Check that the level structure is correctly implemented and follows the requirements in the subject:
        corridors, pacgums, super pacgums, walls, player and ghosts

Player Mechanics

Check that the player mechanics are correctly implemented and follow
the requirements in the subject.

    You can move in the maze
    You can't cross walls
    You can eat pacgums and super pacgums
    You can die and re-spawn.

Ghosts Mechanics

Check that the ghosts mechanics are correctly implemented and follow
the requirements in the subject.

    They autonomously chase you or flee you according to the situation
    They can be eaten and they re-spawn after a while

Pacgum and Super-Pacgum

Check that the pacgum and super-pacgum mechanics are correctly implemented
and follow the requirements in the subject.

    Pacgums are present in the maze and can be eaten
    Super-pacgums are present in the maze and can be eaten
    Eating a pacgum increases the score appropriately
    Eating a super-pacgum makes the ghosts flee for a limited time

Scoring System

The score should be displayed during the game, and increase based on
the different actions (eating a pacgum, a super-pacgum, a ghost).

Cheat Mode

The cheat mode is provided to facilitate testing and debugging.

    Ask the team to present the available cheat modes in the program and test them.

Game Progression

Check that the game progression is correctly implemented and follows
the requirements in the subject.

    Complete a full cycle:
        starting a brand new game
        Try to lose your lives, eating pacgums and super-pacgums
        Win or lose the level
        Add your name to the highscore board

Highscore Persistence

Check that the highscore system is correctly implemented and persistent.

    It must follow the requirements in the subject.
    Ask the team their choices regarding the persistent storage.
    Control the full process:
        Start with an empty highscore board
        Then, win or lose a level
        Then, enter your name for the highscore board
        Then, quit the game
        Finally, Start again to see your previous score.

User Interface

Check user interface elements not controlled yet:
In the subject check the User Interface chapter to see what is required.

    The Main menu displays all the required elements?
    The In-Game HUD displays all the required elements?
    The pause menu displays all the required elements?
    The game over screen displays all the required elements?
    The victory screen displays all the required elements?

Maze Generator Integration

Check that the assigned maze generator package is indeed used, and not altered.

    Download again the package and re-install it.
    The pac-man program should work as previously.
    Control in the code that the package is actually used and not just discarded.

Object Oriented Programming

Check that the code is organized in an object-oriented structure.

    You should see classes for each different logic elements, and the code
    should benefits from the classic OOP approach.
    Example: the same "do not cross walls" rule should be inherited by
    pac-man and ghosts.

    Do not hesitate to ask the team to explain their choices and structure.
    Keep in mind that there is not a unique approach.

Project Packaging and Deployment on Gaming Platform

The project is packaged for publication as described in the subject.

    You should be able to re-generate the package live during this evaluation.
    Check that the package is available for download on a gaming platform.
    It is not mandatory to upload the re-generated package online during the evaluation as it may require some validation from the gaming platform.